eighteen months after Superman's
destructive battle with General Zod in
Metropolis Superman has become a
controversial figure
Daily Planet reporter Clark Kent
Superman's alter-ego has moved in with
Lois Lane Bruce Wayne who has operated
in Gotham City as the vigilante Batman
for nearly two decades
sees Superman as a potential threat to
humanity after learning of Batman's
activities Clark used Batman as a threat
and seeks to stop him via Daily Planet
articles Wayne learns that Russian
weapon trafficker Anatoly can Yossef has
been contacting lexcorp's mogul Lex
Luthor meanwhile Luthor tries to
persuade senator June Finch to allow him
to import Kryptonite retrieved from the
Indian Ocean following the results of
Zod's terraforming attempt claiming to
use it as a deterrent against
Kryptonians but she denies the request
he also makes side dealings with Finch's
subordinate and demands access to Zod's
body and the Kryptonian Scout ship Wayne
attends Luthor's party at LexCorp where
he meets a mysterious antiques dealer
named Diana Prince and retrieves
encrypted data from the company's main
frame while decrypting the drive at the
Batcave wayne has a dream of a
post-apocalyptic world where he leads a
group of rebels against Superman he has
snapped out of the dream by an
unidentified time traveler her warmth
some of lanes crucial role in the
distant future and urges him to find the
others Wayne later discovers that Luthor
is not only experimenting with
kryptonite but also investigating
metahumans one of them is Prince herself
who is an immortal warrior Wayne admits
to Alfred Pennyworth that he plans to
steal a kryptonite to weaponize it
should have become necessary to fight
Superman Luthor orchestrates a bombing
at a congressional hearing where Finch
is questioning Superman on the validity
of his actions killing everyone present
beside Superman believing that he should
have detected the bomb and frustrated by
his failure to save the people Superman
goes into self-imposed exile Batman
breaks into Lex Corp and steals the
Kryptonite planning to use it to battle
Superman by building a powered
exoskeleton and creating a kryptonite
grenade launcher and a kryptonite tip
spear meanwhile Luthor enters the
Kryptonian ship and learns of its
functions as well as recorded alien
worlds he reveals that he has
manipulated Superman and Batman by
fueling their animosity for each other
Luthor demands Superman fight and kill
Batman in exchange for Martha's
Superman tries to reason with Batman but
Batman instigates a parole fight and
ultimately wins before Batman can kill
Superman with the spear Superman urges
Batman to save Martha whose name is also
shared with Wayne's late mother Lane
arrives it explains the situation
convincing Batman that Superman is not a
threat unwilling to let someone else's
mother die
Batman leaves to rescue Martha upon
learning of Luthor's plan while Superman
confronts Luthor on the scout ship
Luthor executes his backup plan
unleashing a genetically engineered
monster with DNA from both Zod's body
and his own
however Diana Prince arrives
unexpectedly revealing her metahuman
nature she joins forces with Batman and
Superman to fight the creature they are
soon outmatched by its power as it can
absorb and redirect energy realizing
that it is also vulnerable to kryptonite
Superman retrieved the kryptonite spear
with Batman and princes help distracting
it Superman impales the monster as it
dies the creature stabs and kills a
weakened Superman with one of its bone
protrusions luthor is arrested and
batman confronts him in prison
warning Luthor that he will always be
watching him Luthor gloats that
Superman's death has made the world
vulnerable to powerful alien threats and
that something bigger is coming to earth
a memorial is held for Superman in
Metropolis Clark is also declared dead
and Bruce Wayne Lois Lane Martha Kent
and Diana Prince attend a private
funeral for him in Smallville Martha
gives an envelope to Lois Lane which
contains an engagement ring from Clark
after the funeral Wayne reveals to
Prince that he plans to form a team of
metahumans starting with the ones from
Luthor's files to help protect the world
in Superman's absence after they leave
the dirt around Clark's coffin begins to
levitate